docs: add chain upgrade guide v0.43 (#9567)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/migrations/chain-upgrade-guide-043.md

<!--
order: 1
-->

# Chain Upgrade Guide to v0.43

This document provides guidelines for a chain upgrade from v0.42 to v0.43 and an example of the upgrade process using `simapp`. {synopsis}

::: tip
You must upgrade to Stargate v0.42 before upgrading to v0.43. If you have not done so, please see [Chain Upgrade Guide to v0.42](/v0.42/migrations/chain-upgrade-guide-040.html).
:::

## Prerequisite Readings

- [Upgrading Modules](../building-modules/upgrade.html) {prereq}
- [In-Place Store Migrations](../core/upgrade.html) {prereq}
- [Cosmovisor](../run-node/cosmovisor.html) {prereq}

Cosmos SDK v0.43 introduces a new way of handling chain upgrades that no longer requires exporting state to JSON, making the necesssary changes, and then creating a new chain with the modified JSON as the new genesis file.

> Instead of starting a new chain, the upgrade binary will read the existing database and perform in-place store migrations. This new way of handling chain upgrades can be used alongside [Cosmovisor](../run-node/cosmovisor.html) to make the upgrade process seemless.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of starting a new chain, the upgrade binary will read the existing database and perform in-place store migrations. This new way of handling chain upgrades can be used alongside [Cosmovisor](../run-node/cosmovisor.html) to make the upgrade process seamless.
```

Validators can use the auto-restart option to prevent unecessary downtime during the upgrade process. The auto-restart option will automatically restart the chain with the upgrade binary once the chain has halted at the proposed upgrade height. With the auto-restart option, validators can prepare the upgrade binary in advance and then relax at the time of the upgrade.

## Example: Simapp Upgrade

The following example will walk through the upgrade process using `simapp` as our blockchain application. We will be upgrading `simapp` from v0.42 to v0.43. We will be building the upgrade binary ourselves and enabling the auto-restart option.

*Note: In this example, we will be starting a new chain from `v0.42.6`. The binary for this version will be the genesis binary. For validators using Cosmovisor for the first time, the binary for the current version of the chain should be used as the genesis binary (i.e. the starting binary). For more information, see [Cosmovisor](../run-node/cosmovisor.html).*

### Initial Setup

> From within the `cosmos-sdk` repository, check out `v0.42.6`:

Reviewer: The latest version is 0.42.7. We can probably keep 0.42.6 though, but maybe we can add a line "check out any 0.42.* release, we'll be using 0.42.6 in this tutorial"

Reviewer 2: Use `v0.42.x` and state that you'll be using v0.42.6 in this document 👍

Author: Updated to let users know they will be using `v0.42` (no patch) and using `release/v0.42.x`

```
./build/simd keys add validator
./build/simd add-genesis-account validator 5000000000stake --keyring-backend test
./build/simd gentx validator 1000000stake --chain-id test
./build/simd collect-gentxs
```

Now that our node is initialized and we are ready to start a new `simapp` chain, let's set up `cosmovisor` and the genesis binary.

### Cosmovisor Setup

First, install or update `cosmovisor`:

```
go get github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/cosmovisor/cmd/cosmovisor
```

Set the required environment variables:

```
export DAEMON_NAME=simd
export DAEMON_HOME=$HOME/.simapp
```

Set the optional environment variable to trigger an automatic restart:

```
export DAEMON_RESTART_AFTER_UPGRADE=true
```

Create the folder for the genesis binary and copy the `v0.42.6` binary:

```
mkdir -p $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
cp ./build/simd $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/genesis/bin
```

Now that `cosmovisor` is installed and the genesis binary has been added, let's add the upgrade handler to `simapp/app.go` and prepare the upgrade binary.

### Chain Upgrade

<!-- TODO: update example to use v0.43.0 -->

Check out `release/v0.43.x`:

```
git checkout release/v0.43.x
```

> Add the following to `simapp/app.go` starting on line 260:

Reviewer: It seems to me these lines are not up-to-date anymore (L260 is about stakingKeeper). I think it's a bit risky to put explicit line numbers in this doc, as it's possible we'll backport stuff into app.go and forget to update this file.

```suggestion
Add the following to `simapp/app.go` inside `NewSimApp`:
```

```go
	app.registerUpgradeHandlers()
```

> Add the following to `simapp/app.go` starting on line 420 (to learn more about the upgrade handler, see the [In-Place Store Migrations](../core/upgrade.html)):

Reviewer: same here

		app.SetStoreLoader(upgradetypes.UpgradeStoreLoader(upgradeInfo.Height, &storeUpgrades))
	}
}
```

Add `storetypes` to imports:

```go
	storetypes "github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/store/types"
```

Build the `simd` binary for `v0.43.0` (the upgrade binary):

```
make build
```

Create the folder for the upgrade binary and copy the `v0.43.0` binary:

```
mkdir -p $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v0.43/bin
cp ./build/simd $DAEMON_HOME/cosmovisor/upgrades/v0.43/bin
```

Now that we have added the upgrade handler and prepared the upgrade binary, we are ready to start `cosmovisor` and simulate the upgrade proposal process.

### Upgrade Proposal

Start the node using `cosmovisor`:

```
cosmovisor start
```

Open a new terminal window and submit an upgrade proposal along with a deposit and a vote (these commands must be run within 20 seconds of each other):

```
./build/simd tx gov submit-proposal software-upgrade v0.43 --title upgrade --description upgrade --upgrade-height 20 --from validator --yes
./build/simd tx gov deposit 1 10000000stake --from validator --yes
./build/simd tx gov vote 1 yes --from validator --yes
```

> Confirm the chain automatically upgrades at height 20.

Reviewer: I believe we should add a paragraph about migrating app.toml. i think there's only the rosetta section that's new

Author: Added a paragraph about two new sections (Rosetta and gRPC Web) and new option added to State Sync [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/9567/files#diff-14b0b84dc6f1242582f3d0500e4285c9797aa72f08cedd8102ab51e7f8f784c6R37-R39 ).
